
1. Using proper pseudo-code, describe the following primitive algorithms:

Making coffee;

PUT water in coffee maker
PUT coffee filter in coffee maker
IF coffee beans are ground
  PUT grounds in filter
ELSE
  GRIND coffee beans, THEN put grounds in filter
END IF
PUT coffee mug in designated area under coffee maker
WHILE water is heating
  WAIT for water to heat
END WHILE
turn coffee maker on

Washing dishes;

TURN ON hot water
WHILE number of dirty dishes > 0
  APPLY soap to dish
  SCRUB dish with sponge
  PLACE dish in left side of sink
END WHILE
TURN OFF hot water
TURN ON cold water
WHILE number of washed dishes > 0
  RINSE dish under cold water
  PLACE dish on drying rack
END WHILE
TURN OFF cold water
WHILE number of rinsed dishes > 0
  DRY dish with towel
  PUT dish in designated place
END WHILE

A choice of your own.
Tuning a guitar:
FUNCTION tuneString
  WHILE string pitch is flat
    RAISE string pitch with tuning key
  END WHILE
  WHILE string pitch is sharp
    LOWER string pitch with tuning key
  END WHILE
END FUNCTION

PLUG guitar into tuner
TURN tuner on
FOR EACH string on guitar
  IF string is out of tune
    CALL tuneString function
  END IF
END LOOP


2. As with the knot algorithm, there may be more than one way to solve the problem. It is essential to try to pick the best algorithm for a situation. Name three companies who created an algorithm that made them successful, e.g., Google's search algorithm. It doesn't need to be a tech example (such as a recipe or manufacturing a product). Google's algorithm produces more relevant results than other search engines; what about each of your cases make them stand out?

Facebook marketing algorithm, targets ads specifically to the people most likely to respond to them based on location, age, other interests, etc. Helps advertisers get ads to most likely potential clients and avoid advertising to people with little or no interest in them.

UPS VOLCANO algorithm, used to plan short term scheduling, handle peak Thanksgiving and Christmas seasons, and plan long term purchase of facilities and aircrafts. Has saved UPS estimated tens of millions of dollars since its inception in 2000.

Tesco's 'rolling ball' algorithm, assigns attributes to each grocery item sold in Tesco grocery stores. Based on these attributes, the algorithm decides what items should be sold in each store, where they should be in the store, and which items should be grouped together or placed close to each other in the store.

3. Hypothesize about what constitutes an efficient algorithm versus an inefficient algorithm.

An efficient algorithm should find an acceptable solution, in an acceptable amount of time, using an acceptable amount of resources. An algorithm that finds a solution that is "more correct" than necessary in a longer amount of time than an algorithm that finds a "correct enough" solution in a shorter amount of time would be considered somewhat inefficient. An algorithm that finds a good solution quickly but uses far too many resources would also be considered inefficient to some extent. 
